################
1.x pre-releases
################

1.x versions are 1.2 prereleases.

.. _v1.1.9:

1.1.9 (TODO)
####################

Enhancement
***********

* Move Wicket JavaScript and Select2 custom settings to
  ``CoreWicketApplication``.

.. _v1.1.8:

1.1.8 (111-10-2018)
####################

Bugfixes
********

* Fix conflict between Bootstrap 4 tooltip and JQuery UI widget tooltip.

Breaking change
***************

* Override JQuery UI js ressource from WiQuery to remove widget tooltip.

.. _v1.1.7:

1.1.7 (10-10-2018)
####################

Bugfixes
********

* Fix inline enclosure component handler in BS modal.
* Fix limit 0 case in QueryDSL and HS search query (return empty list).

Breaking change
***************

* Custom Wicket tag ``wicket:enclosure-container`` is now deprecated and will be
  removed soon. Use Igloo component ``EnclosureContainer`` instead.

Enhancement
***********

* added tests on rollback behavior in ``igloo-component-jpa-test``

.. _v1.1.6:

1.1.6 (01-10-2018)
##################

Bugfixes
********

* Select2: attach component to the Bootstrap modal.

Breaking change
***************

* Fix Bootstrap variables override.

.. _v1.1.5:

1.1.5 (24-09-2018)
##################

Bugfixes
********

* Select2: prevent dropdown toggle (open) on clear (single + multiple).
* Select2: dispose tooltip on element clear (multiple).

Updates
*******

* Font Awesome 5.3.1.

Enhancements
************

* Add build informations (date, commit sha, etc.).
* Consistency in use of Wicket ``Session.get()``.
* Remove useless icon on cancel buttons.
* BasicApp: Fix custom BS checkbox position.
* BasicApp: Improve alignment on page title and back to btn.
* BasicApp: Minor change on style (nav and pagination background colors).
* BasicApp: Remove useless link to user detail page.

.. _v1.1.4:

1.1.4 (16-09-2018)
##################

Bugfixes
********

* :issue:`18` - fix grouping/splitting behavior when sending a notification to
  multiple recipients.
* :issue:`17` - use an explicit setting ``notification.mail.sender.behavior``
  to control what is done when sender is not explictly set when a mail is sent.
  Get rid of an extraneous INFO message on PropertyServiceImpl when
  ``notification.mail.sender`` is empty.

Breaking change
***************

If you use a not-empty value for ``notification.mail.sender``, you need to
add to your configuration
``notification.mail.sender.behavior=FALLBACK_TO_CONFIGURATION``.

.. _v1.1.3:

1.1.3 (12-09-2018)
##################

Bugfixes
********

* Fix off-request wicket generation (scheduler, async tasks). The issue broke
  all wicket-based API used outside of an HTTP request.
* Fix a problematic dependency declaration on igloo-dependency-hibernate-search
  that triggers (wrongly) SNAPSHOT detection by jgitflow plugin.

.. _v1.1.2:

1.1.2 (06-09-2018)
##################

Enhancements
************

This changes are backward-compatible.

* added JNDI's database support (:ref:`jndi`)
* added ``igloo.config`` and ``igloo.log4j`` configuration overrides
  (:ref:`config.bootstrap`)
* drop some useless WARN messages
* AuthenticationManager now uses Spring to search AuthenticationProvider
  (instead of a static configuration).

Bugfixes
********

* fix logger's configuration overriding (higher precedence for last files).

Misc
****

* update developers' information (pom.xml)

.. _v1.1.1:

1.1.1 (03-09-2018)
##################

Enhancements
************

* [4747e20056678ae7300272a6bf9dd39d38ba7b9a] added !default on some styles
* [713cc732fce44c5b26e3cf9e46abf5aebcacb9c3] update some data for Excel-based
  initialization
* [c28ed4fccd9a25481123da2db48d34d54c031a98] basic-application: use raw
  bootstrap grid styling instead of custom styles
* [df3bcdb1f215e7005efba0fefcde751064bddb0b] prepare bootstrap-override
  resources to ease fix and workaround integration in Igloo on external styling
  resources (bootstrap, ...).

Bugfixes
********

* [e3007084ca90495cc4e8b9d875938f6d52c8a25c] workaround for bootstrap col-auto max width
* [ad0896a0ab4b28705e9bef122050bf330f557f9b] fix scroll to top (styles)

.. _v1.1.0:

1.1.0 (20-08-2018)
##################

Major rewrite of Igloo ; see Migrating to 1.2 guide.

.. _v1.0:

1.0
###

There is not 1.0 releases.
